you're looking at a woman who was
publicly silent for a decade obviously
that's changed but only recently it was
several months ago that I give my very
first major public talk at the Forbes 30
under 30 summit 1500 brilliant people
all under the age of 30 that meant that
in 1998 the oldest among the group were
only 14 and the youngest just four I
joked with them that some might only
have heard of me
from rap songs yes I'm in rap songs
almost 40 rap songs but the night of my
speech a surprising thing happened at
the age of 41 I was hit on by a 27 year
old guy I know
right he was charming and I was
flattered and I declined
you know what his unsuccessful pick-up
line was he could make me feel 22 again
I realized later that night I'm probably
the only person over 40 who does not
want to be 22 again at the age of 22 I
fell in love with my boss and at the age
of 24 I learned the devastating
consequences can I see a show of hands
of anyone here who didn't make a mistake
or do something they regretted at 22 yep
that's what I thought
so like me at 22 a few of you may have
also taken wrong turns and fallen in
love with the wrong person maybe even
your boss unlike me though
your boss probably wasn't the President
of the United States of America of
course life is full of surprises not a
day goes by that I'm not reminded of my
mistake and I regret that mistake deeply
in 1998 after having been swept up into
an improbable romance
I was then swept up into the eye of a
political legal and media Maelstrom like
we had never seen before remember just a
few years earlier news was consumed from
just three places reading a newspaper or
magazine listening to the radio or
watching television that was it but that
wasn't my fate instead this scandal was
brought to you by the digital revolution
that meant we could access all the
information we wanted when we wanted it
anytime anywhere and when the story
broke in January 1998 it broke online it
was the first
I'm the traditional news was usurped by
the internet for a major news story a
click that reverberated around the world
what that meant for me personally was
that overnight I went from being a
completely private figure to a publicly
humiliated one worldwide I was patient
zero of losing a personal reputation on
a global scale almost instantaneously
this rush to judgment enabled by
technology led to mobs of virtual
stone-throwers granted it was before
social media but people could still
comment online email stories and of
course email cruel jokes news sources
plastered photos of me all over to sell
newspapers banner ads online and to keep
people tuned to the TV do you recall a
particular image of me say wearing a
beret now I admit I made mistakes
especially wearing that parade but the
attention and judgment that I received
not the story but that I personally
received was unprecedented I was branded
as a [ __ ] tart [ __ ] [ __ ] bimbo and of
course that woman I was seen by many but
actually known by few and I get it it
was easy to forget that that woman was
dimensional had a soul and was once
unbroken when this happened to me 17
years ago there was no name for it now
we call it cyberbullying and online
harassment
today I want to share some of my
experience with you talk about how that
experience has helped shape my cultural
observations and how I hope my past
experience can lead to a change that
results in less suffering for others in
1998 I lost my reputation and my dignity
I lost almost everything and I almost
lost my life let me paint a picture for
you it is September of 1998 I'm sitting
in a windowless office room inside the
office of the Independent Counsel
underneath humming fluorescent lights
I'm listening to the sound of my voice
my voice unserved tisha Slee taped phone
calls that a supposed friend had made
the year before I'm here because I've
been legally required to personally
authenticate all 20 hours of taped
conversation for the past eight months
the mysterious content of these tapes
has hung like the sword of Damocles over
my head I mean who can remember what
they said a year ago scared and
mortified I listened listen as I prattle
on about the flotsam and jetsam of the
day listen as I confess my love for the
President and of course my heartbreak
listen to my sometimes caddy sometimes
churlish sometimes silly self being
cruel unforgiving uncouth listen deeply
deeply ashamed to the worst version of
myself a self I don't even recognize a
few days later the Starr report is
released to Congress and all of those
tapes and transcripts those stolen words
form a part of it
that people can read the transcripts is
horrific enough but a few weeks later
the audio tapes are aired on TV and
significant portions made available
online the public humiliation was
excruciating life was almost unbearable
this was not something that happened
with regularity back then in 1998 and by
this I mean the stealing of people's
private words actions conversations or
photos and then making them public
public without consent public without
context and public without compassion
fast forward 12 years to 2010 and now
social media has been born the landscape
has sadly become much more populated
with instances like mine whether or not
someone actually made a mistake and now
it's for both public and private people
the consequences for some had become
dire very dire I was on the phone with
my mom in September of 2010 and we were
talking about the news of a young
college freshman from Rutgers University
named Tyler Clementi sweet sensitive
creative Tyler was secretly webcams by
his roommate while being intimate with
another man when the online world
learned to this incident the ridicule
and cyberbullying ignited a few days
later Tyler jumped from the George
Washington Bridge to his death he was 18
my mom was beside herself about what
happened to Tyler and his family and she
was gutted with pain
in a way that I just couldn't quite
understand and then eventually I
realized she was reliving 1998 we living
a time when she sat by my bed every
night reliving a time when she made me
shower with a bathroom door open and
reliving in time when both of my parents
feared that I would be humiliated to
death literally today too many parents
haven't had the chance to step in and
rescue their loved ones too many have
learned of their child's suffering and
humiliation
after it was too late Tyler's tragic
senseless deaths was a turning point for
me it served to recontextualize my
experiences and I then began to look at
the world of humiliation and bullying
around me and say something different in
1998 we had no way of knowing we're this
brave new technology called the Internet
would take us since then it has
connected people in unimaginable ways
joining lost siblings saving lives
launching revolutions but the darkness
cyberbullying and slut-shaming that I
experienced had mushroomed every day
online people especially young people
who are not developmentally equipped to
handle this are so abused and humiliated
that they can't imagine living to the
next day and some tragically don't and
there's nothing virtual about that
Childline a UK nonprofit that's focused
on helping young people on various
issues released a staggering statistic
late last year from 2012 to 2013 there
was an 87 percent increase in calls and
emails related to cyber bullying a
meta-analysis done out of
Netherlands showed that for the first
time cyberbullying was leading to
suicidal ideations more significantly
than offline bullying and you know what
shocked me although it shouldn't have
was other research last year that
determined humiliation was a more
intensely felt emotion than either
happiness or even anger cruelty to
others is nothing new but online
technologically enhanced shaming is
amplified uncontained and permanently
accessible the echo of embarrassment
used to extend only as far as your
family village school or community but
now it's the online community to
millions of people often anonymously can
stab you with their words and that's a
lot of pain and there are no perimeters
around how many people can publicly
observe you and put you in a public
stockade there is a very personal price
to public humiliation and the growth of
the Internet has jacked up that price
for nearly two decades now we have
slowly been sowing the seeds of shame
and public humiliation in our cultural
soil both on and offline gossip websites
paparazzi reality programming politics
news outlets and sometimes hackers all
traffic in shame it's led to
desensitization and a permissive
environment online which lends itself to
trolling invasion of privacy and
cyberbullying this shift has created
what professor Nicholas Mills calls a
culture of humiliation consider a few
prominent examples just from the past
six months alone snapchat the service
which is used mainly by
your generations and claims that its
messages only have the lifespan of a few
seconds you can imagine the range of
content that that gets a third-party app
which snapchatters use to preserve the
life span of the messages was hacked and
100,000 personal conversations photos
and videos relieved online to now have a
lifespan of forever Jennifer Lawrence
and several other actors had their
iCloud accounts hacked and private
intimate nude photos were plastered
across the internet without their
permission
one gossip web site had over five
million hits for this one story and what
about the Sony Pictures cyber hacking
the documents which received the most
attention were private emails that had
maximum public embarrassment value but
in this culture of humiliation there is
another kind of price tag attached to
public shaming the price does not
measure the cost to the victim which
Tyler and to many others notably women
minorities and members of the LGBTQ
community have paid but the price
measures the profit of those who prey on
them this invasion of others is a raw
material efficiently and ruthlessly
mined packaged and sold at a profit
a marketplace has emerged where public
humiliation is a commodity and shame is
an industry how is the money made flicks
the more shame the more clicks the more
clicks the more advertising dollars
we're in a dangerous cycle the more we
click on this kind of gossip the more
numb we get to the human lives behind it
and the more numb we get the more we
click all the while someone is making
money off of the
if someone else is suffering with every
click we make a choice the more we
saturate our culture with public shaming
the more accepted it is the more we will
see behavior like cyberbullying trolling
some forms of hacking and online
harassment why because they all have
humiliation at their cores this behavior
is a symptom of the culture we've
created just think about it
changing behavior begins with evolving
beliefs we've seen that to be true with
racism homophobia and plenty of other
biases today and in the past as we've
changed beliefs about same-sex marriage
more people have been offered equal
freedoms
when we began valuing sustainability
more people began to recycle so as far
as our culture of humiliation goes what
we need is a cultural revolution public
shaming as a bloodsport has to stop and
it's time for an intervention on the
Internet and in our culture the shift
begins with something simple but it's
not easy
we need to return to a long-held value
of compassion compassion and empathy
online we've got a compassion deficit an
empathy crisis researcher bren Brown
said and I quote shame can't survive
empathy shame cannot survive empathy
I've seen some very dark days in my life
it was the compassion and empathy from
my family friends professionals and
sometimes even strangers that saved me
even empathy from one person can make a
difference the theory of minority
influence proposed by social
psychologists Eric Musco VC
says that even in small numbers when
there's consistency over time change can
happen in the online world we can foster
minority influence by becoming
upstanders to become an upstander means
instead of bystander apathy we can post
a positive comment for someone or report
a bullying situation trust me
compassionate comments help abate the
negativity we can also counteract the
culture by supporting organizations that
deal with these kinds of issues like the
Tyler Clementi Foundation in the u.s. in
the UK there's anti-bullying Pro and in
Australia there's project Rockit we
talked a lot about our right to freedom
of expression but we need to talk more
about our responsibility to freedom of
expression we all want to be heard but
let's acknowledge the difference between
speaking up with intention and speaking
up for attention the internet is the
superhighway for the it'd but online
showing empathy to others benefits us
all and helps create a safer and better
world we need to communicate online with
compassion consume news with compassion
and click with compassion just imagine
walking a mile in someone else's
headline I'd like to end on a personal
note in the past nine months the
question I've been asked the most is why
why now why was I sticking my head above
the parapet you can read between the
lines and those questions and the answer
has nothing to do with politics the top
note answer was and is because it's time
time to stop tiptoeing around my past
time to stop living a life of opprobrium
and time to take back my narrative it's
also not just about saving
myself anyone who is suffering from
shame and public humiliation needs to
know one thing
you can survive it I know it's hard
it may not be painless quick or easy but
you can insist on a different ending to
your story have compassion for yourself
we all deserve compassion and to live
both online and off in a more
compassionate world thank you for
listening
[Applause]
[Music]